# Splunk\_TA\_Cacti version 1.0.0

## Setup and Install
This TA is deployed on Forwarders, Indexers and Search Heads.

### Indexer
This TA can be deployed to the indexer without any further changes.
It is recommended to create a new index called **cacti**.  An indexes.conf file is not included with this TA.

### Search Head
Install and Deploy the app to the search head.

On the search head, the add-on will provide:
 * search time extractions, lookups, macros and event types

To complete the install, you will need to update the follow:
 * macros.conf
   * **cacti\_index**: replace **index=cacti** with the appropriate index

### Cacti Server / Universal Forwarder
To complete the ingestion of data, deploy the Splunk\_TA\_Cacti to the forwarder installed on the same host as your Cacti implementation.  If you have multiple installs, you can deploy it across multiple Cacti servers.

For this add-on to work, you will need to have installed the Cacti Mirage plugin to the Cacti servers.  In addition, you will need the following information:
 * Path to Cacti install (i.e. /var/www/html/cacti or /usr/share/lib/cacti)
 * Path to mirage\_poller\_output.log (i.e /var/www/html/cacti/log/mirage\_poller\_output.log)
 * Index to send data to (either default or index=cacti, etc)

For deploying the add-on, copy the following files from the **default** directory to the **local** directory.
 * inputs.conf

Edit the **local/inputs.conf** file and make the following changes:
 * enable all inputs stanzas: change **disabled = true** to **disabled = false**
 * modify all stanzas to reflect the appropriate destination index (i.e. index=cacti)
 * [monitor:///usr/share/cacti/log/mirage\_poller\_output.log\*]
    * Set to the correct path to the mirage\_poller\_output.log file.  This file is generated by the Cacti Mirage plugin
 * [monitor:///usr/share/cacti/log/cacti.log]
    * Set to the correct path to the cacti.log file, which is most likely in the log/ folder inside the Cacti install.
 * [script://./bin/cacti\_lookup\_mirage.py /usr/share/cacti]
    * Change **/usr/share/cacti** to the folder where you installed Cacti

## Copyright
Copyright 2016 Matthew Modestino, Philippe Tang, Menno Vanderlist

